1) Install Microsoft Windows 10 and Server 2016 (or whatever version you want to use) within Microsoft Azure cloud software.

2) When installing the server, MAKE SURE TO SELECT A SIZE OPTION THAT SUPPORTS 2 NICs (I used D2 v5). This one got me for a bit...

3) Create a secondary Network Interface Card (NIC) on the Server 2016 machine. Next, shut down the server VM, go to your server VM, down to Networking, click "Attach Network Interface", name it whatever you want. Restart the server VM.
      
4) In the server VM, go to: "Network Settings" -> "Change Adapter Settings". Find the internal NIC and rename it to something like "Internal". Label the other NIC something like "Internet". Restart the VM.
      
5) Go back to network settings to set IP address for internal NIC. Go to "Network Settings" -> "Change Adapter Options". Double-Click "Internet Protocol Version 4". Select "Use the following IP address" (IP: 172.16.0.1, Subnet: 255.255.255.0, Prefered DNS Server: 127.0.0.1 (Loopback IP).
      
6) Install Active Directory Domain Services: In the Server Manager main page, click "Add Roles and Features". Select "Role-based or Feature-based installation". Select the server you wish to install Active Directory Domain Services (I only had 1 option). Check "Active Directory Domain Services" click next. Keep pre-set "Features", hit next. AD DS... click next, select Install.
      
7) Post-Deployment Configuration: Click "Promote this computer to Domain Server". Click "Add new forest". Name it whatever you want (I chose "mydomain.com"). Create a password, you won't use it anyway. Do NOT check anything under DNS Options... click next. Additional Options... next, Paths... next, Review Options... next, select "Install".
      
8) Active Directory Users and Computers: Go to Start menu, click "Windows Administrative Tools". Click "Active Directory Users and Computers". In the LEFT pane, select "yourdomainname.com". Right click, select "New" -> "Organizational Unit", Name it "Admin". Right click your new "Admin" folder, select "New" -> "User" and create a new user and password (I chose "a-FirstinitialLastname" as it is best practices in most enterprises). For the sake of keeping is simple, uncheck "User must change password at next logon". Check "Password Never Expires". Next and Finish.
      
9) Make this user a Domain Admin: In the RIGHT pane, right click your new user, select "Properties". Select the "Member Of" tab, click "Add" type "domain admins". Click "Ok", "Apply", "Ok". Sign out of the current account to access the new Domain Admnin account we just made.
      
10) Installing Remote Access Server / Network Address Translation (RAS/NAT): On the Server Manager Dashboard, select "Add roles and features". Click Next, Next... select the same server you chose for previous step. Under "Server roles", check "Remote Access". For "Role services", check "Routing". Install and exit window. On the "Server Manager Dashboard", go to "Tools" -> "Routing and Remote Access" Right click on your computers name (mine was "DC") and select "Configure and Enable Routing and Remote Access". Check "Network address translation". Check "Use this public interface to connect to the internet". Select the interface labeled "Internet". Finish and let the system intialize (this took F-O-R-E-V-E-R).
      
11) Set up DHCP on the Domain Controller: Back to the "Server Manager Dashboard" -> "Add roles and features". Again, select the same server you chose from the previous 2 steps. Under "Select Server roles", select "DHCP Server", "add features" and click Next, Next, Install. In the "Server Manager Dashboard", go to "Tools" -> "DHCP" Click on the DC you created, right click "IPV4" and select "New Scope". I named the new scope according to the address space that we will be using (ie: "172.16.0.100-200"). Input the range of IP addresses (Start IP: 172.16.0.100 and End IP: 172.16.0.200). Set the lease time (this doesn't really matter to us, pick whatever lease time you wish). Select "Yes, configure DHCP options". Type in the Domain Controller's IP address that has NAT configured on it (172.16.0.1 in my example) and click "Add". Type in the Domain Controller's domain name (mydomain.com in my example) in the "Parent Domain" field. Skip "WINS Servers". Check "Yes I want to activate the scope" and click Finish. On the DHCP "Tools" pane, right click the DHCP server, select "Authorize". IPV4 and IPV6 should now have a green check mark next to them, showing they are now active.

12) Powershell script to create 1000 user accounts on the server: The link for the source code is: https://github.com/joshmadakor1/AD_PS (Thanks to Josh Madakor for creating the original project and for providing source code). This code is a loop that creates usernames based on the "names.txt" file that contains 1000 random user's first and last names. Save source code from each file on your desktop in the same folder. Open "Powershell ISE" as administrator. Open the powershell script you saved (1_CREATE_USERS.ps1). Enable execution of all scripts by typing "Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted" and hit enter. Change your directory to where you saved the "1_CREATE_USERS.ps1" and "names.txt" files. Click "Run" or the green play button. You can now see all the usernames created in "Active Directory Users and Computers". 
      
13) Connecting Windows 10 VM to the internal network: While creating the Windows 10 client, you must change the network connection from "NAT" to the internal NIC from our DHCP sever. I had trouble doing this and I am not sure if it is becuase, as I found out later, Azure does not support DHCP, or what the issue is. Aside from this, everything else worked.

In this lab, I used Microsoft Azure to create and setup a Windows Server 2016 VM, assign it DCHP and DNS capabilites, and create 1000 user accounts using a custom Powershell script to automate the processes. I then created a Windows 10 VM and attempted to connect it to the DHCP server, but was unsuccessful. Although I was unsuccessful in getting the Windows 10 Client to connect to the DHCP server, I was still able to learn a lot about setting up the server, creating admin/user workgroups and creating several usernames via automated Powershell script, and using Microsoft's Azure cloud software.
